---
layout: post
title: Glossary 2
---

1. *Absorption costing*: The accounting procedure whereby all manufacturing costs, including fixed costs, are included in the cost of goods manufactured
2. *Accelerated method of depreciation*: A method of depreciating an asset’s cost that allocates greater amounts of depreciation to an asset’s early years of useful life
3. *Account balance*: The difference between the amounts recorded on the two sides of an account, the **NET**.
4. *Account form balance sheet*: A balance sheet that lists assets on the left and liabilities and owner’s equity on the right. See also: Report form balance sheet 
5. *Accounting*: The process by which financial information about a business is recorded, classified, summarized, interpreted, and communicated to owners, managers, and other interested parties
6. *Accounting cycle*: A series of steps performed during each accounting period to classify, record, and summarize data for a business and to produce needed financial information
7. *Accounting Standards Codification*: The source of authoritative U.S. GAAP
8. *Accounting Standards Update*: Changes to Accounting Standards Codification are communicated through Accounting Standards Update covering approximately 90 topics
9. *Accounting system*: A process designed to accumulate, classify, and summarize financial data
10. *Accounts*: Written records of the assets, liabilities, and owner’s equity of a business
11. *Accounts payable*: Amounts a business must pay in the future
12. *Accounts payable ledger*: A subsidiary ledger that contains a separate account for each creditor
13. *Accounts receivable*: Claims for future collection from customers
14. *Accounts receivable ledger*: A subsidiary ledger that contains credit customer accounts
15. *Accounts receivable turnover*: A measure of the speed with which sales on account are collected; the ratio of net credit sales to average receivables
16. *Accrual basis*: A system of accounting by which all revenues and expenses are matched and reported on financial statements for the applicable period, regardless of when the cash related to the transaction is received or paid
17. *Accrued expenses*: Expense items that relate to the current period but have not yet been paid and do not yet appear in the accounting records
18. *Accrued income*: Income that has been earned but not yet received and recorded
19. *Acid-test ratio*: A measure of immediate liquidity; the ratio of quick assets to current liabilities
20. *Adjusting entries*: Journal entries made to update accounts for items that were not recorded during the accounting period
21. *Adjustments*: See Adjusting entries
22. *Aging the accounts receivable*: Classifying accounts receivable balances according to how long they have been outstanding
23. *Allowance method*: A method of recording uncollectible accounts that estimates losses from uncollectible accounts and charges them to expense in the period when the sales are recorded
24. *Amortization*: The process of periodically transferring the acquisition cost of intangible assets with estimated useful lives to an expense account
25. *Appropriation of retained earnings*: A formal declaration of an intention to restrict dividends
26. *Articles of partnership*: See Partnership agreement
27. *Asset turnover*: A measure of the effective use of assets in making sales; the ratio of net sales to total assets
28. *Assets*: Property owned by a business
29. *Audit trail*: A chain of references that makes it possible to trace information, locate errors, and prevent fraud
30. *Auditing*: The review of financial statements to assess their fairness and adherence to generally accepted accounting principles
31. *Auditor’s report*: An independent accountant’s review of a firm’s financial statements
32. *Authorized capital stock*: The number of shares authorized for issue by the corporate charter
33. *Average collection period*: The ratio of 365 days to the accounts receivable turnover; also called the *number of days’ sales in receivables*
34. *Average cost method*: A method of inventory costing using the average cost of units of an item available for sale during the period to arrive at cost of the ending inventory
35. *Average method of process costing*: A method of costing that combines the cost of beginning inventory for each cost element with the costs during the current period
36. *Average number of days in inventory*: The average number of days for merchandise inventory to be sold after it is purchased
37. *Back period*: Refers to a previous pay period or tax year for which tax filings or payments were missed or need to be adjusted.
38. *Balance ledger form*: A ledger account form that shows the ­balance of the account after each entry is posted
39. *Balance sheet*: A formal report of a business’s financial condition on a certain date; reports the assets, liabilities, and owner’s equity of the business
40. *Bank draft*: A check written by a bank that orders another bank to pay the stated amount to a specific party
41. *Bank reconciliation statement*: A statement that accounts for all differences between the balance on the bank statement and the book balance of cash
42. *Banker’s year*: A 360-day period used to calculate interest on a note
43. *Bill of lading*: A business document that lists goods accepted for transportation
44. *Blank endorsement*: A signature of the payee written on the back of the check that transfers ownership of the check without specifying to whom or for what purpose
45. *Bond indenture*: A bond contract
46. *Bond issue costs*: Costs incurred in issuing bonds, such as legal and accounting fees and printing costs
47. *Bond retirement*: When a bond is paid and the liability is removed from the company’s balance sheet
48. *Bond sinking fund investment*: A fund established to accumulate assets to pay off bonds when they mature
49. *Bonding*: The process by which employees are investigated by an insurance company that will insure the business against losses through employee theft or mishandling of funds
50. *Bonds payable*: Long-term debt instruments that are written promises to repay the principal at a future date; interest is due at a fixed rate payable over the life of the bond
51. *Book value*: That portion of an asset’s original cost that has not yet been depreciated
52. *Book value (stock)*: The total equity applicable to a class of stock divided by the number of shares outstanding
53. *Brand name*: *See* Trade name
54. *Budget*: An operating plan expressed in monetary units
55. *Budget performance report*: A comparison of actual costs and budgeted costs
56. *Business transaction*: A financial event that changes the resources of a firm
57. *Bylaws*: The guidelines for conducting a corporation’s business affairs
58. *Call price*: The amount the corporation must pay for the bond when it is called
59. *Callable bonds*: Bonds that allow the issuing corporation to require the holder to surrender the bonds for payment before their maturity date
60. *Callable preferred stock*: Stock that gives the issuing corporation the right to repurchase the preferred shares from the stockholders at a specific price
61. *Canceled check*: A check paid by the bank on which it was drawn
62. *Capacity*: A facility’s ability to produce or use
63. *Capital*: Financial investment in a business; equity
64. *Capital stock ledger*: A subsidiary ledger that contains a record of each stockholder’s purchases, transfers, and current balance of shares owned; also called stockholders’ ledger
65. *Capital stock transfer journal*: A record of stock transfers used for posting to the stockholders’ ledger
66. *Capitalized costs*: All costs recorded as part of an asset’s costs
67. *Carrying value of bonds*: The balance of the *Bonds Payable* account plus the *Premium on Bonds Payable* account minus the *Discount on Bonds Payable* account; also called *book value of bonds*
68. *Cash*: In accounting, currency, coins, checks, money orders, and funds on deposit in a bank
69. *Cash discount*: A discount offered by suppliers for payment received within a specified period of time
70. *Cash equivalents*: Assets that are easily convertible into known amounts of cash
71. *Cash payments journal*: A special journal used to record transactions involving the payment of cash
72. *Cash receipts journal*: A special journal used to record and post transactions involving the receipt of cash
73. *Cash register proof*: A verification that the amount of currency and coins in a cash register agrees with the amount shown on the cash register audit tape
74. *Cash Short or Over account*: An account used to record any discrepancies between the amount of currency and coins in the cash register and the amount shown on the audit tape - *See Also: Cash Variance*
75. *Cashier’s check*: A draft on the issuing bank’s own funds
76. *Certified Bookkeeper (CB)*: A designation that assures an individual possesses the level of knowledge and skill needed to carry out all key functions through the adjusted trial balance, including payroll
77. *Certified public accountant (CPA)*: An independent accountant who provides accounting services to the public for a fee
78. *Charge-account sales*: Sales made through the use of open-account credit or one of various types of credit cards
79. *Chart of accounts*: A list of the accounts used by a business to record its financial transactions
80. *Classification*: A means of identifying each account as an asset, liability, or owner’s equity
81. *Classified financial statement*: A format by which revenues and expenses on the income statement, and assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, are divided into groups of similar accounts and a subtotal is given for each group
82. *Closing entries*: Journal entries that transfer the results of operations (net income or net loss) to owner’s equity and reduce the revenue, expense, and drawing account balances to zero
83. *Collateral trust bonds*: Bonds secured by the pledge of securities, such as stocks or bonds of other companies
84. *Combined journal*: A journal that combines features of the general journal and the special journals in a single record
85. *Commercial draft*: A note issued by one party that orders another party to pay a specified sum on a specified date
86. *Commission basis*: A method of paying employees according to a percentage of net sales
87. *Common costs*: Costs not directly traceable to a specific segment of a business
88. *Common stock*: The general class of stock issued when no other class of stock is authorized; each share carries the same rights and privileges as every other share. Even if preferred stock is issued, common stock will also be issued Common Stock Dividend Distributable account Equity account used to record par, or stated, value of shares to be issued as the result of the declaration of a stock dividend
89. *Common-size statements*: Financial statements with items expressed as percentages of a base amount
90. *Comparative statements*: Financial statements presented side by side for two or more years
91. *Compensation record*: *See* Individual earnings record
92. *Compound entry*: A journal entry with more than one debit or credit
93. *Computer software*: An intangible asset; written programs that instruct a computer’s hardware to do certain tasks 
94. *Conceptual framework*: A basic framework developed by the FASB to provide conceptual guidelines for financial statements. The most important features are statements of qualitative features of statements, basic assumptions underlying statements, basic accounting principles, and modifying constraints
95. *Condensed income statement*: An income statement summarizing detailed income statement accounts into a few lines of information
96. *Conservatism*: The concept that revenue and assets should be understated rather than overstated if GAAP allows alternatives. Similarly, expenses and liabilities should be overstated rather than understated
97. *Contingent liability*: An item that can become a liability if certain things happen
98. *Contra account*: An account with a normal balance that is opposite that of a related account
99. *Contra asset account*: An asset account with a credit balance, which is contrary to the normal balance of an asset account
100. *Contra revenue account*: An account with a debit balance, which is contrary to the normal balance for a revenue account
101. *Contribution margin*: Gross profit on sales minus direct expenses; revenues minus variable costs
102. *Control account*: An account that links a subsidiary ledger and the general ledger because its balance summarizes the balances of the accounts in the subsidiary ledger
103. *Controllable fixed costs*: Costs that the segment manager can control
104. *Convertible bonds*: Bonds that give the owner the right to convert the bonds into common stock under specified conditions
105. *Convertible preferred stock*: Preferred stock that conveys the right to convert that stock to common stock after a specified date or during a period of time
106. *Copyright*: An intangible asset; an exclusive right granted by the federal government to produce, publish, and sell a literary or artistic work for a period equal to the creator’s life plus 70 years
107. *Corporate charter*: A document issued by a state government that establishes a corporation
108. *Corporation*: A publicly or privately owned business entity that is separate from its owners and has a legal right to own property and do business in its own name; stockholders are not responsible for the debts or taxes of the business
109. *Correcting entry*: A journal entry made to correct an erroneous entry
110. *Cost center*: A business segment that incurs costs but does not produce revenue
111. *Cost of goods sold*: The actual cost to the business of the merchandise sold to customers
112. *Cost of production report*: Summarizes all costs charged to each department and shows the costs assigned to the goods transferred out of the department and to the goods still in process
113. *Cost variance*: The difference between the total standard cost and the total actual cost
114. *Cost-benefit test*: If accounting concepts suggest a particular accounting treatment for an item, but it appears that the theoretically correct treatment would require an unreasonable amount of work, the accountant may analyze the benefits and costs of the preferred treatment to see if the benefit gained from its adoption is justified by the cost
115. *Coupon bonds*: Unregistered bonds that have coupons attached for each interest payment; also called *bearer bonds*
116. *Credit*: An entry on the right side of an account
117. *Credit memorandum (accounts receivable)*: A note verifying that a customer’s account is being reduced by the amount of a sales return or sales allowance plus any sales tax that may have been involved
118. *Credit memorandum (banking)*: A form that explains any addition, other than a deposit, to a checking account, Terms for payment on credit by buyer to seller
119. *Creditor*: One to whom money is owed
120. *Cumulative preferred stock*: Stock that conveys to its owners the right to receive the preference dividend for the current year and any prior years in which the preference dividend was not paid before common stockholders receive any dividends
121. *Current assets*: Assets consisting of cash, items that normally will be converted into cash within one year, and items that will be used up within one year
122. *Current liabilities*: Debts that must be paid or otherwise satisfied within one year
123. *Current ratio*: A relationship between current assets and current liabilities that provides a measure of a firm’s ability to pay its current debts (current ratio = current assets ÷ current liabilities)
124. *Debentures*: Unsecured bonds backed only by a corporation’s general credit
125. *Debit*: An entry on the left side of an account
126. *Debit memorandum*: A form that explains any deduction, other than a check or other electronic payment transaction, from a checking account
127. *Declaration date*: The date on which the board of directors declares a dividend
128. *Declining-balance method*: An accelerated method of depreciation in which an asset’s book value at the beginning of a year is multiplied by a constant percentage (such as 125%, 150%, or 200%) to determine depreciation for the year
129. *Deferred expenses*: *See* Prepaid expenses
130. *Deferred income*: *See* Unearned income
131. *Deferred income taxes*: The amount of income taxes that will be payable or an amount that may benefit the corporation in the future as a result of the difference between the current year’s taxable income and financial statement net income
132. *Departmental income statement*: Income statement that shows each department’s contribution margin and net income from operations after all expenses are allocated
133. *Depletion*: Allocating the cost of a natural resource to expense over the period in which the resource produces revenue
134. *Deposit in transit*: A deposit that is recorded in the cash receipts journal but that reaches the bank too late to be shown on the monthly bank statement
135. *Depreciation*: Allocation of the cost of a long-term asset to operations during its expected useful life
136. *Differential cost*: The difference in cost between one alternative and another 
137. *Direct charge-off method*: A method of recording uncollectible account losses as they occur
138. *Direct costing*: The accounting procedure whereby only variable costs are included in the cost of goods manufactured, and fixed manufacturing costs are written off as expenses in the period in which they are incurred
139. *Direct expenses*: Operating expenses that are identified directly with a department and are recorded by department
140. *Direct labor*: The costs attributable to personnel who work directly on the product being manufactured
141. *Direct materials*: All items that go into a product and become a part of it
142. *Direct method*: A means of reporting sources and uses of cash under which all revenue and expenses reported on the income statement appear in the operating section of the statement of cash flows and show the cash received or paid out for each type of transaction
143. *Discount on bonds payable*: The excess of the face value over the price received by the corporation for a bond
144. *Discount on credit card sales*: A fee charged by the credit card companies for processing sales made with credit cards.
145. *Discounting*: Deducting the interest from the principal on a note payable or receivable in advance
146. *Discussion memorandum*: An explanation of a topic under consideration by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
147. *Dishonored (NSF) check*: A check returned to the depositor unpaid because of insufficient funds in the drawer’s account; also called an NSF check 
148. *Dissolution*: The legal term for termination of a partnership
149. *Distributive share*: The amount of net income or net loss allocated to each partner
150. *Dividends*: Distributions of the profits of a corporation to its shareholders
151. *Donated capital*: Capital resulting from the receipt of gifts by a corporation
152. *Double-declining-balance (DDB) method*: A method of depreciation that uses a rate equal to twice the straight-line rate and applies that rate to the book value of the asset at the beginning of the year
153. *Double-entry system*: An accounting system that involves recording the effects of each transaction as debits and credits
154. *Draft*: A written order that requires one party (a person or business) to pay a stated sum of money to another party
155. **Drawee**: A drawee is the party that processes the check (usually a bank). The bank on which a check is written. 
156. **Drawer**: The person or firm issuing a check
157. *Drawing account*: A special type of owner’s equity account set up to record the owner’s withdrawal of cash from the business
158. *Economic entity*: A business or organization whose major purpose is to produce a profit for its owners
159. *Electronic funds transfer (EFT)*: An electronic transfer of money from one account to another
160. *Employee*: A person who is hired by and works under the direction of the employer
161. *Employee’s Withholding Certificate, Form W-4*: A form used to claim filing status and other information for the business to use in determining the federal income tax to be withheld
162. *Employer’s Annual Federal Unemployment Tax Return, Form 940*: Preprinted government form used by the employer to report unemployment taxes for the calendar year
163. *Employer’s Quarterly Federal Tax Return, Form 941*: Preprinted government form used by the employer to report payroll tax information relating to social security, ­Medicare, and employee income tax withholding to the Internal Revenue Service
164. *Endorsement*: A written authorization that transfers ownership of a check
165. *Entity*: Anything having its own separate identity, such as an individual, a town, a university, or a business
166. *Equity*: An owner’s financial interest in a business
167. *Equivalent production*: The estimated number of units that could have been started and completed with the same effort and costs incurred in the department during the same time period
168. *Exempt employees*: Salaried employees who hold supervisory or managerial positions who are not subject to the maximum hour and overtime pay provisions of the Wage and Hour Law
169. *Expense*: An outflow of cash, use of other assets, or incurring of a liability
170. *Experience rating system*: A system that rewards an employer for maintaining steady employment conditions by reducing the firm’s state unemployment tax rate
171. *Exposure draft*: A proposed solution to a problem being considered by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
172. *Face interest rate*: The contractual interest rate specified on the bond
173. *Face value*: An amount of money indicated to be paid, exclusive of interest or discounts
174. *Fair market value*: The current worth of an asset or the price the asset would bring if sold on the open market
175. *Federal unemployment taxes (FUTA)*: Taxes levied by the federal government against employers to benefit unemployed workers
176. *Financial statements*: Periodic reports of a firm’s financial position or operating results
177. *Financing activities*: Transactions with those who provide cash to the business to carry on its activities
178. *Finished goods inventory*: The cost of completed products ready for sale; corresponds to the Merchandise Inventory account of a merchandising business
179. *Finished goods subsidiary ledger*: A ledger containing a record for each of the different types of finished products
180. *First-in, first-out (FIFO) method*: A method of inventory costing that assumes the oldest merchandise is sold first
181. *Fixed budget*: A budget representing only one level of activity
182. *Fixed costs*: Costs that do not change in total as the level of ­activity changes
183. *Flexible budget*: A budget that shows the budgeted costs at ­various levels of activity
184. *Footing*: A small pencil figure written at the base of an amount column showing the sum of the entries in the column
185. *Franchise*: An intangible asset; a right to exclusive dealership granted by a governmental unit or a business entity
186. *Fraud*: Intentional or reckless acts that result in confiscation of a firm’s assets or the misrepresentation of the firm’s accounting data
187. Freight In account An account showing transportation charges for items purchased 
188. *Full disclosure principle*: The requirement that all information that might affect the user’s interpretation of the profitability and financial condition of a business be disclosed in the financial statements or in notes to the statements
189. *Full endorsement*: A signature transferring a check to a specific person, firm, or bank
190. *Fundamental accounting equation*: The relationship between assets and liabilities plus owner’s equity
191. *General journal*: A financial record for entering all types of business transactions; a record of original entry
192. *General ledger*: A permanent, classified record of all accounts used in a firm’s operation; a record of final entry
193. *General partner*: A member of a partnership who has unlimited liability
194. *Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)*: Accounting standards developed and applied by professional accountants
195. *Going concern assumption*: The assumption that a firm will continue to operate indefinitely
196. *Goodwill*: An intangible asset; the value of a business in excess of the net value of its identifiable assets
197. *Governmental accounting*: Accounting work performed for a federal, state, or local governmental unit
198. *Gross profit*: The difference between net sales and the cost of goods sold (gross profit = net sales – cost of goods sold)
199. *Gross profit method*: A method of estimating inventory cost based on the assumption that the rate of gross profit on sales and the ratio of cost of goods sold to net sales are relatively constant from period to period
200. *Gross profit percentage*: The amount of gross profit from each dollar of sales (gross profit percentage = gross profit ÷ net sales)
201. *High-low point method*: A method to determine the fixed and variable components of a semivariable cost
202. *Historical cost basis principle*: The principle that requires assets and services to be recorded at their cost at the time they are acquired and that, generally, long-term assets remain at historical costs in the asset accounts
203. *Horizontal analysis*: Computing the percentage change for individual items in the financial statements from year to year
204. *Hourly rate basis*: A method of paying employees according to a stated rate per hour
205. *Impairment*: A situation that occurs when the asset is determined to have a fair market value less than its book value
206. *Income statement*: A formal report of business operations covering a specific period of time; also called a profit and loss statement or a statement of income and expenses
207. *Income Summary*: A special owner’s equity account that is used only in the closing process to summarize the results of operations
208. *Income tax method*: A method of recording the trade-in of an asset for income tax purposes. It does not permit a gain or loss to be recognized on the transaction
209. *Independent contractor*: One who is paid by a company to carry out a specific task or job but is not under the direct supervision or control of the company
210. *Indirect expenses*: Operating expenses that cannot be readily identified and are not closely related to activity within a department
211. *Indirect labor*: Costs attributable to personnel who support production but are not directly involved in the manufacture of a product; for example, supervisory, repair and maintenance, and janitorial staff
212. *Indirect materials and supplies*: Materials used in manufacturing a product that may not become a part of the product and are not a significant material cost factor
213. *Indirect method*: A means of reporting cash generated from operating activities by treating net income as the primary source of cash in the operating section of the statement of cash flows and adjusting that amount for changes in current assets and liabilities associated with net income, noncash transactions, and other items
214. *Individual earnings record*: An employee record that contains information needed to compute earnings and complete tax reports
215. *Industry averages*: Financial ratios and percentages reflecting averages for similar companies
216. *Industry practice constraint*: In a few limited cases, unusual operating characteristics of an industry, usually based on risk, for which special accounting principles and procedures have been developed. These may not conform completely with GAAP for other industries
217. *Intangible assets*: Assets that lack a physical substance, such as goodwill, patents, copyrights, and computer software, although software has, in a sense, a physical attribute
218. *Interest*: The fee charged for the use of money
219. *Internal control*: A company’s policies and procedures to safeguard assets, ensure reliability of accounting data, and promote compliance with management policies and applicable laws
220. *International accounting*: The study of accounting principles used by different countries
221. *Interpret*: To understand and explain the meaning and importance of something (such as financial statements)
222. *Inventory sheet*: A form used to list the quantity and type of goods a firm has in stock
223. *Inventory turnover*: The number of times inventory is purchased and sold during the accounting period (inventory turnover = cost of goods sold ÷ average inventory)
224. *Investing activities*: Transactions that involve the acquisition or disposal of long-term assets
225. *Invoice*: A customer billing for merchandise bought on credit
226. *Job order*: A specific order for a specific batch of manufactured items
227. *Job order cost accounting*: A cost accounting system that determines the unit cost of manufactured items for each separate production order
228. *Job order cost sheet*: A record of all manufacturing costs charged to a specific job
229. *Journal*: The record of original entry
230. *Journalizing*: Recording transactions in a journal
231. *Just-in-time system*: An inventory system in which raw materials are ordered so they arrive just in time to be placed into production
232. *Labor efficiency variance*: *See * Labor time variance
233. *Labor rate variance*: The difference between the actual labor rate per hour and the standard labor rate per hour multiplied by the actual number of hours worked on the job
234. *Labor time variance*: The difference between the actual hours worked and the standard labor hours allowed for the job multiplied by the standard cost per hour
235. *Last-in, first-out (LIFO) method*: A method of inventory costing that assumes that the most recently purchased merchandise is sold first
236. *Ledger*: The record of final entry
237. *Leveraged buyout*: Purchasing a business by acquiring the stock and obligating the business to pay the debt incurred
238. *Leveraging*: Using borrowed funds to earn a profit greater than the interest that must be paid on the borrowing
239. *Liabilities*: Debts or obligations of a business
240. *Limited liability company (LLC)*: Provides limited liability to the owners, who can elect to have the profits taxed at the LLC level or on their individual tax returns
241. *Limited liability partnership (LLP)*: A partnership that provides some limited liability for all partners
242. *Limited partner*: A member of a partnership whose liability is limited to his or her investment in the partnership
243. *Limited partnership*: A partnership having one or more limited partners
244. *Liquidation*: Termination of a business by distributing all assets and discontinuing the business
245. *Liquidation value*: Value of assets to be applied to preferred stock, usually par value or an amount in excess of par value, if the corporation is liquidated
246. *Liquidity*: The ease with which an item can be converted into cash; the ability of a business to pay its debts when due
247. *List price*: An established retail price
248. *Long-term liabilities*: Debts of a business that are due more than one year in the future
249. *Loss*: The disposition of an asset for less than its book value
250. *Lower of cost or net realizable value rule*: The principle by which inventory is reported at either its original cost or its net realizable value, whichever is lower
251. *Management advisory services*: Services designed to help clients improve their information systems or their business performance
252. *Managerial accounting*: Accounting work carried on by an accountant employed by a single business in industry; the branch of accounting that provides financial information about business segments, activities, or products
253. *Manufacturing business*: A business that sells goods that it has produced
254. *Manufacturing cost budget*: A budget made for each manufacturing cost
255. *Manufacturing margin*: Sales minus the variable cost of goods sold
256. *Manufacturing overhead*: All manufacturing costs that are not classified as direct materials or direct labor
257. *Manufacturing overhead ledger*: A subsidiary ledger that contains a record for each overhead item
258. *Manufacturing Summary account*: The account to which all items on the statement of cost of goods manufactured are closed; similar to the Income Summary account
259. *Marginal income*: The manufacturing margin minus variable operating expenses
260. *Markdown*: Price reduction below the original markon
261. *Market interest rate*: The interest rate a corporation is willing to pay and investors are willing to accept at the current time
262. *Market value*: The price per share at which stock is bought and sold
263. *Markon*: The difference between the cost and the initial retail price of merchandise
264. *Markup*: A price increase above the original markon
265. *Matching principle*: The concept that revenue and the costs incurred in earning the revenue should be matched in the appropriate accounting periods
266. *Materiality constraint*: The significance of an item in relation to a particular situation or set of facts
267. *Materials price variance*: The difference between the actual price and the standard cost for materials multiplied by the actual quantity of materials used
268. *Materials quantity variance*: The difference between the actual quantity used and the quantity of materials allowed multiplied by the standard cost of the materials
269. *Materials requisition*: A form that describes the item and quantity needed and shows the job or purpose
270. *Materials usage variance*: See Materials quantity variance
271. *Maturity value*: The total amount (principal plus interest) payable when a note comes due
272. *Medicare tax*: A tax levied on employees and employers to provide medical care for the employee and the employee’s spouse after each has reached age 65
273. *Memorandum entry*: An informational entry in the general journal
274. *Merchandise inventory*: The stock of goods a merchandising business keeps on hand
275. *Merchandising business*: A business that sells goods purchased for resale
276. *Merit rating system*: *See* Experience rating system
277. *Minute book*: A book in which accurate and complete records of all meetings of stockholders and directors are kept
278. *Monetary unit assumption*: It is assumed that only those items and events that can be measured in monetary terms are included in the financial statements. An inherent part of this assumption is that the monetary unit is stable. Thus, assets purchased one year may be combined in the accounts with those purchased in other years even though the dollars used in each year actually may have different purchasing power
279. *Mortgage loan*: A long-term debt created when a note is given as part of the purchase price for land or buildings
280. *Multiple-step income statement*: A type of income statement on which several subtotals are computed before the net income is calculated
281. *Mutual agency*: The characteristic of a partnership by which each partner is empowered to act as an agent for the partnership, binding the firm by their acts
282. *Negotiable*: A financial instrument whose ownership can be transferred to another person or business
283. *Negotiable instrument*: A financial document containing a promise or order to pay that meets all requirements of the Uniform Commercial Code in order to be transferable to another party
284. *Net book value*: The cost of an asset minus its accumulated depreciation, depletion, or amortization; also known as book value
285. *Net income*: The result of an excess of revenue over expenses
286. *Net income line*: The worksheet line immediately following the column totals on which net income (or net loss) is **FOUND** in two places: 1. Income Statement section and 2. Balance Sheet section.
287. *Net loss*: The result of an excess of expenses over revenue
288. *Net price*: The list price less all trade discounts
289. *Net realizable value*: The estimated selling price of an inventory item in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation
290. *Net sales*: The difference between the balance in the Sales account and the balance in the Sales Returns and Allowances account
291. *Net salvage value*: The salvage value of an asset less any costs to remove or sell the asset
292. *Neutrality concept*: The concept that information in financial statements cannot be selected or presented in a way to favor one set of interested parties over another
293. *Nominal Account*: See also Temporary Account.
294. *Noncumulative preferred stock*: Stock that conveys to its owners the stated preference dividend for the current year but no rights to dividends for years in which none were declared
295. *Nonparticipating preferred stock*: Stock that conveys to its owners the right to only the preference dividend amount specified on the stock certificate
296. *No-par-value stock*: Stock that is not assigned a par value in the corporate charter
297. *Normal balance*: The increase side of an account
298. *Note payable*: A liability representing a written promise by the maker of the note (the debtor) to pay another party (the creditor) a specified amount at a specified future date
299. *Note receivable*: An asset representing a written promise by another party (the debtor) to pay the note holder (the creditor) a specified amount at a specified future date
300. *On account*: An arrangement to allow payment at a later date; also called a charge account or open-account credit
301. *Open-account credit*: A system that allows the sale of services or goods with the understanding that payment will be made at a later date
302. *Operating activities*: Routine business transactions—selling goods or services and incurring expenses
303. *Operating assets and liabilities*: Current assets and current liabilities
304. *Opportunity cost*: Potential earnings or benefits that are given up because a certain course of action is taken
305. *Organization costs*: The costs associated with establishing a corporation
306. *Outstanding checks*: Checks that have been recorded in the cash payments journal but have not yet been paid by the bank
307. *Overapplied overhead*: The result of applied overhead exceeding the actual overhead costs
308. *Overhead application rate*: The rate at which the estimated cost of overhead is charged to each job
309. *Owner’s equity*: The financial interest of the owner of a business; also called proprietorship or net worth
310. *Paid-in capital*: Capital acquired from capital stock transactions (also known as contributed capital)
311. *Par value*: An amount assigned by the corporate charter to each share of stock for accounting purposes
312. *Participating preferred stock*: Stock that conveys the right not only to the preference dividend amount but also to a share of other dividends paid
313. *Partnership*: A business entity owned by two or more people who carry on a business for profit and who are legally responsible for the debts and taxes of the business
314. *Partnership agreement*: A legal contract forming a partnership and specifying certain details of operation
315. *Patent*: An intangible asset; an exclusive right given by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to manufacture and sell an invention for a period of 20 years from the date the patent is granted
316. *Payee*: The person or firm to whom a check is payable
317. *Payment date*: The date that dividends are paid
318. *Payroll register*: A record of payroll information for each employee for the pay period
319. *Periodic inventory*: Inventory based on a periodic count of goods on hand
320. *Periodic inventory system*: An inventory system in which the merchandise inventory balance is only updated when a physical inventory is taken
321. *Periodicity of income assumption*: The concept that economic activities of an entity can be divided logically and identified with specific time periods, such as the year or quarter
322. *Permanent account*: An account that is kept open from one accounting period to the next
323. *Perpetual inventory*: Inventory based on a running total number of units
324. *Perpetual inventory system*: An inventory system that tracks the inventories on hand at all times
325. *Petty cash analysis sheet*: A form used to record transactions involving petty cash
326. *Petty cash fund*: A special-purpose fund used to handle payments involving small amounts of money
327. *Petty cash voucher*: A form used to record the payments made from a petty cash fund
328. *Physical inventory*: An actual count of the number of units of each type of good on hand
329. *Piece-rate basis*: A method of paying employees according to the number of units produced
330. *Plant and equipment*: Property that will be used in the business for longer than one year
331. *Postclosing trial balance*: A statement that is prepared to prove the equality of total debits and credits after the closing process is completed
332. *Postdated check*: A check dated some time in the future
333. *Posting*: Transferring data from a journal to a ledger
334. *Preemptive right*: A shareholder’s right to purchase a proportionate amount of any new stock issued at a later date
335. *Preference dividend*: A basic or stated dividend rate for preferred stock that must be paid before dividends can be paid on common stock
336. *Preferred stock*: A class of stock that has special claims on the corporate profits or, in case of liquidation, on corporate assets
337. *Premium on bonds payable*: The excess of the price paid over the face value of a bond
338. *Prepaid expenses*: Expense items acquired, recorded, and paid for in advance of their use 
339. *Price-earnings ratio*: The ratio of the current market value of common stock to earnings per share of that stock
340. *Principal*: The amount shown on the face of a note
341. *Private sector*: This is the nongovernmental sector of society; in an accounting context, it is the business sector, which is represented in developing accounting principles by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
342. *Process cost accounting*: A cost accounting system whereby unit costs of manufactured items are determined by totaling unit costs in each production department
343. *Process cost accounting system*: A method of accounting in which costs are accumulated for each process or department and then transferred on to the next process or department
344. *Production order*: *See* Job order
345. *Profit center*: A business segment that produces revenue
346. *Promissory note*: A written promise to pay a specified amount of money on a specific date
347. *Property, plant, and equipment*: (**PPE**) Long-term assets that are used in the operation of a business and that are subject to depreciation (except for land, which is not depreciated)
348. *Public accountants*: Members of firms that perform accounting services for other companies
349. *Public sector*: The government sector, which is represented in developing accounting principles by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
350. *Purchase allowance*: A price reduction from the amount originally billed
351. *Purchase invoice*: A bill received for goods purchased
352. *Purchase order*: An order to the supplier of goods specifying items needed, quantity, price, and credit terms
353. *Purchase requisition*: A list sent to the purchasing department showing the items to be ordered
354. *Purchase return*: Return of unsatisfactory goods
355. *Purchases account*: An account used to record cost of goods bought for resale during a period
356. *Purchases discount*: A cash discount offered to the customers for payment within a specified period
357. *Purchases journal*: A special journal used to record the purchase of goods on credit
358. *Purchases returns and allowances*: A contra expense under cost of goods sold where purchase returns and purchase allowances are recorded; see definitions of purchase return and purchase allowance
359. *Qualitative characteristics*: Traits necessary for credible financial statements: relevance (confirmatory and predictive value), faithful representation (completeness, neutrality, and freedom from error), comparability, timeliness, verifiability, and understandability
360. *Quick assets*: Cash, receivables, and marketable securities
361. *Ratio analysis*: Computing the relationship between various items in the financial statements
362. *Raw materials*: The materials placed into production
363. *Raw materials ledger record*: A record showing details of receipts and issues for a type of raw material
364. *Raw materials subsidiary ledger*: A ledger containing the raw materials ledger records
365. *Real property*: Assets such as land, land improvements, buildings, and other structures attached to the land
366. *Realization*: The concept that revenue occurs when goods or services, merchandise, or other assets are exchanged for cash or claims to cash
367. *Receiving report*: A form showing quantity and condition of goods received
368. *Record date*: The date on which the specific stockholders to receive a dividend are determined
369. *Recoverability test*: Test for possible impairment that compares the asset’s net book value with the estimated net cash flows from future use of the asset
370. *Registered bonds*: Bonds issued to a party whose name is listed in the corporation’s records
371. *Registrar*: A person or institution in charge of the issuance and transfer of a corporation’s stock
372. *Relevant range of activity*: The different levels of activity at which a factory is expected to operate
373. *Report form balance sheet*: A balance sheet that lists the asset accounts first, followed by liabilities and owner’s equity
374. *Residual value*: The estimate of the amount that could be obtained from the sale or disposition of an asset at the end of its useful life; also called salvage or scrap value
375. *Responsibility accounting*: The process that allows management to evaluate the performance of each segment of the business and assign responsibility for its financial results
376. *Restrictive endorsement*: A signature that transfers a check to a specific party for a stated purpose
377. *Retail business*: A business that sells directly to individual consumers
378. *Retail method*: A method of estimating inventory cost by applying the ratio of cost to selling price in the current accounting period to the retail price of the inventory
379. *Retained earnings*: The cumulative profits and losses of the corporation not distributed as dividends
380. *Return on common stockholders’ equity*: A measure of how well the corporation is making a profit for its shareholders; the ratio of net income available for common stockholders to common stockholders’ equity
381. *Revenue*: An inflow of money or other assets that results from the sales of goods or services or from the use of money or property; also called income
382. *Revenue recognition principle*: Revenue is recognized when it has been earned and realized
383. *Reversing entries*: Journal entries made to reverse the effect of certain adjusting entries involving accrued income or accrued expenses to avoid problems in recording future payments or receipts of cash in a new accounting period
384. *Salary basis*: A method of paying employees according to an agreed-upon amount for each week or month
385. *Sales allowance*: A reduction in the price originally charged to customers for goods or services
386. *Sales discount*: A cash discount offered by the supplier for payment within a specified period
387. *Sales invoice*: A supplier’s billing document
388. *Sales journal*: A special journal used to record sales of merchandise on credit
389. *Sales return*: A firm’s acceptance of a return of goods from a customer
390. *Sales Returns and Allowances*: A contra revenue account where sales returns and sales allowances are recorded; sales returns and allowances are subtracted from sales to determine net sales
391. *Salvage value*: An estimate of the amount that could be received by selling or disposing of an asset at the end of its useful life
392. *Schedule of accounts payable*: A list of all balances owed to creditors
393. *Schedule of accounts receivable*: A listing of all balances of the accounts in the accounts receivable subsidiary ledger
394. *Schedule of operating expenses*: A schedule that supplements the income statement, showing the selling and general and administrative expenses in greater detail
395. *Scrap value*: *See* Residual value
396. *Secured bonds*: Bonds for which property is pledged to secure the claims of bondholders
397. *Semidirect expenses*: Operating expenses that cannot be directly assigned to a department but are closely related to departmental activities
398. *Semivariable costs*: Costs that vary with, but not in direct proportion to, the volume of activity
399. *Separate entity assumption*: The concept that a business is separate from its owners; the concept of keeping a firm’s financial records separate from the owner’s personal financial records
400. *Serial bonds*: Bonds issued at one time but payable over a period of years
401. *Service business*: A business that sells services
402. *Service charge*: A fee charged by a bank to cover the costs of maintaining accounts and providing services
403. *Shareholder*: A person who owns shares of stock in a corporation; also called a stockholder
404. *Sight draft*: A commercial draft that is payable on presentation
405. *Single-step income statement*: A type of income statement where only one computation is needed to determine the net income (total revenue − total expenses = net income)
406. *Slide*: An accounting error involving a misplaced decimal point
407. *Social entity*: A nonprofit organization, such as a city, public school, or public hospital
408. *Social security (FICA or OASDI) tax*: A tax imposed by the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and collected on employee earnings to provide retirement and disability benefits
409. *Social Security Act*: A federal act providing certain benefits for employees and their families; officially the Federal Insurance Contributions Act
410. *Sole proprietorship*: A business entity owned by one person, who is legally responsible for the debts and taxes of the business
411. *Special journal*: A journal used to record only one type of transaction
412. *Specific identification method*: A method of inventory costing based on the actual cost of each item of merchandise
413. *Standard cost card*: A form that shows the per-unit standard costs for materials, labor, and overhead
414. *Standard costs*: A measure of what costs should be in an efficient operation
415. *State unemployment taxes (SUTA)*: Taxes levied by a state government against employers to benefit unemployed workers
416. *Stated value*: The value that can be assigned to no-par-value stock by a board of directors for accounting purposes
417. *Statement of account*: A form sent to a firm’s customers showing transactions during the month and the balance owed
418. *Statement of cash flows*: A financial statement that provides information about the cash receipts and cash payments of a business
419. *Statement of cost of goods manufactured*: A financial report showing details of the cost of goods completed for a manufacturing business
420. *Statement of owner’s equity*: A formal report of changes that occurred in the owner’s financial interest during a reporting period
421. *Statement of partners’ equities*: A financial statement prepared to summarize the changes in the partners’ capital accounts during an accounting period
422. *Statement of retained earnings*: A financial statement that shows all changes that have occurred in retained earnings during the period
423. *Statement of stockholders’ equity*: A financial statement that provides an analysis reconciling the beginning and ending balance of each of the stockholders’ equity accounts
424. *Statements of Financial Accounting Standards*: Accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
425. *Stock*: Certificates that represent ownership of a corporation
426. *Stock certificate*: The form by which capital stock is issued; the certificate indicates the name of the corporation, the name of the stockholder to whom the certificate was issued, the class of stock, and the number of shares
427. *Stock dividend*: Distribution of the corporation’s own stock on a pro rata basis that results in conversion of a portion of the firm’s retained earnings to permanent capital
428. *Stock split*: When a corporation issues two or more shares of new stock to replace each share outstanding without making any changes in the capital accounts
429. *Stockholders*: The owners of a corporation; also called shareholders
430. *Stockholders’ equity*: The corporate equivalent of owners’ equity; also called shareholders’ equity
431. *Stockholders’ ledger*: *See* Capital stock ledger
432. *Stockholders of record*: Stockholders in whose name shares are held on date of record and who will receive a declared dividend
433. *Straight-line amortization*: Amortizing the premium or discount on bonds payable in equal amounts each month over the life of the bond
434. *Straight-line depreciation*: Allocation of an asset’s cost in equal amounts to each accounting period of the asset’s useful life
435. *Subchapter S corporation (S corporation)*: An entity formed as a corporation that meets the requirements of subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code to be treated essentially as a partnership, so that the corporation pays no income tax
436. *Subscribers’ ledger*: A subsidiary ledger that contains an account receivable for each stock subscriber
437. *Subscription book*: A list of the stock subscriptions received
438. *Subsidiary ledger*: A ledger dedicated to accounts of a single type and showing details to support a general ledger account
439. *Sum-of-the-years’-digits method*: A method of depreciating asset costs by allocating as expense each year a fractional part of the asset’s depreciable cost, based on the sum of the digits of the number of years in the asset’s useful life
440. *Sunk cost*: A cost that has been incurred and will not change as a result of a decision
441. *T account*: A type of account, resembling a T, used to analyze the effects of a business transaction
442. *Tangible personal property*: Assets such as machinery, equipment, furniture, and fixtures that can be removed and used elsewhere
443. *Tax accounting*: A service that involves tax compliance and tax planning
444. *Tax-exempt wages*: Earnings in excess of the base amount set by the Social Security Act
445. *Temporary account*: An account whose balance is transferred to another account at the end of an accounting period, (Nominal Account)
446. *Time and a half*: Rate of pay for an employee’s work in excess of 40 hours a week
447. *Time draft*: A commercial draft that is payable during a specified period of time
448. *Time ticket*: Form used to record hours worked and jobs performed
449. *Total equities*: The sum of a corporation’s liabilities and stockholders’ equity
450. *Trade acceptance*: A form of commercial time draft used in transactions involving the sale of goods
451. *Trade discount*: A reduction from list price
452. *Trade name*: An intangible asset; an exclusive business name registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; also called brand name
453. *Trademark*: An intangible asset; an exclusive business symbol registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
454. *Trading on the equity*: *See* Leveraging
455. *Transfer agent*: A person or institution that handles all stock transfers and transfer records for a corporation
456. *Transfer price*: The price at which one segment’s goods are transferred to another segment of the company
457. *Transmittal of Wage and Tax Statements, Form W-3*: Preprinted government form submitted with Forms W-2 to the Social Security Administration
458. *Transparency*: Information provided in the financial statements and notes accompanying them should provide a clear and accurate picture of the financial affairs of the company. The key to this idea is that of disclosure
459. *Transportation In account*: See *Freight In* account
460. *Transposition*: An accounting error involving misplaced digits in a number
461. *Treasury stock*: A corporation’s own capital stock that has been issued and reacquired; the stock must have been previously paid in full and issued to a stockholder
462. *Trend analysis*: Comparing selected ratios and percentages over a period of time
463. *Trial balance*: A statement to test the accuracy of total debits and credits after transactions have been recorded
464. *Underapplied overhead*: The result of actual overhead costs exceeding applied overhead
465. *Unearned income*: Income received before it is earned
466. *Unemployment insurance program*: A program that provides unemployment compensation through a tax levied on employers
467. *Units-of-output method*: *See* Units-of-production method
468. *Units-of-production method*: A method of depreciating asset cost at the same rate for each unit produced during each period
469. *Unlimited liability*: The implication that a creditor can look to all partners’ personal assets as well as the assets of the partnership for payment of the firm’s debts
470. *Updated account balances*: The amounts entered in the Adjusted Trial Balance section of the worksheet
471. *Valuation account*: An account, such as Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, whose balance is revalued or reappraised in light of reasonable expectations
472. *Variable costing*: *See* Direct costing
473. *Variable costs*: Costs that vary in total in direct proportion to changes in the level of activity
474. *Variance analysis*: Explains the difference between standard cost and actual cost
475. *Vertical analysis*: Computing the relationship between each item on a financial statement to some base amount on the statement
476. *Wage and Tax Statement, Form W-2*: Preprinted government form that contains information about an employee’s earnings and tax withholdings for the year
477. *Weighted average method*: *See* Average cost method
478. *Wholesale business*: A business that manufactures goods for or distributes goods to retail businesses or large consumers such as hotels and hospitals
479. *Withdrawals*: Funds taken from the business by the owner for personal use
480. *Withholding statement*: *See* Wage and Tax Statement, Form W-2
481. *Work in process*: Partially completed units in the production process
482. *Work in process subsidiary ledger*: A ledger containing the job order cost sheets
483. *Workers’ compensation insurance*: Insurance that protects employees against losses from job-related injuries or illnesses, or compensates their families if death occurs in the course of the employment
484. *Working capital*: The measure of the ability of a company to meet its current obligations; the excess of current assets over ­current liabilities
485. *Worksheet*: A form used to gather all data needed at the end of an accounting period to prepare financial statements
