---
layout: post
title: Retained Earnings Vs Profit/Loss Acts
---

>Q: What is the difference between retained earnings and profit or loss accounts, commonly found in charts of accounts?
>
>A: While both retained earnings and profit/loss (aka. net income, or **Capital accounts**) are related to a company's financial performance, they represent different stages and concepts:

### Profit or Loss (Net Income):

- $Net~ Income~ =~ Total~ Expenses~ -~ Total~ Revenue$<br><br>  

- Net Income is a temporary account (on Income Summary) closed out at the end of the period.<br><br>  

- It transfers the net to the Capital (Retained Earnings) account.


### Retained Earnings:

-  Capital (Retained Earnings) is a permanent account that carries its balance forward to the next accounting period.<br><br>

- Retained Earnings represents the accumulated earnings of a company over its lifetime after accounting for dividends paid to shareholders.<br><br>
  
- Retained earnings INCLUDES net income as well as other capital accounts.<br><br>

- Retained Earnings start at zero for a new company. Then it increases by the amount of net income each period unless there are losses.<br><br>

- It decreases when dividends are paid out to shareholders.

In other words:

- Profit or loss: This is the company's current period's financial performance, like a snapshot of its earnings in a specific time frame.<br><br>

- Retained earnings: This is the company's accumulated wealth built up over time, representing the profits it has kept after accounting for dividends.<br><br>

Yet another analogy:

- Imagine a company's profit or loss as its monthly income.<br><br>
  
- Retained earnings are like a savings account, accumulating the total income (minus any expenses) over time.