---
layout: post
title: S Corporations
---


**What Is an S Corp?**

An S corporation (S-corp.) is a business that is permitted under the tax code to pass its taxable income, credits, deductions, and losses directly to its shareholders. That gives the S corp certain advantages over the more common C-corp.

The S-corp is available only to small businesses with <= 100 shareholders. It is an alternative to the limited liability company (LLC).

Both S-corps and LLCs are known as **pass-through entities** because they pay no corporate taxes. Instead, they pay their shareholders, who become responsible for the taxes due. 

### IRS Info

S corporations are corporations that elect to pass corporate income, losses, deductions, and credits through to their shareholders for federal tax purposes. Shareholders of S-corps report the flow-through of income and losses on their personal tax returns and are assessed tax at their individual income tax rates. This allows S-corps to **avoid double taxation** on the corporate income. S-corps are **responsible for tax on certain built-in gains and passive income at the entity level**.

**To qualify for S corporation status, the corporation must meet the following requirements**:

1. Be a domestic corporation

2. Have only allowable shareholders
     - May be individuals, certain trusts, and estates and
     - May not be partnerships, corporations or non-resident alien shareholders

3. Have no more than 100 shareholders
   
4. Have only one class of stock

5. Not be an ineligible corporation (i.e. certain financial institutions, insurance companies, and domestic international sales corporations).

In order to become an S corporation, the corporation must submit **Form 2553**, Election by a Small Business Corporation signed by all the shareholders. See the Instructions for **Form 2553PDF** for all required information and to determine where to file the form.